
An interview is a two-way street. Your potential employer is asking you questions to learn about you and your skills. In return, you need to prepare questions to ask your potential employer about the position, your boss, and the company in order to be sure that this is the right job for you.

In addition, if you don’t prepare smart questions, you run the risk of the interviewer assuming you aren’t interested or haven’t prepared.

Your opportunity to ask questions usually comes at the end of the interview. You must prepare at least two questions that demonstrate your interest in the position, your drive to excel in the role, and the fact that you’ve done some homework (researched company, industry, department).


1. Can you tell me more about the day-to-day responsibilities of this job? 

This is your chance to learn as much as possible about the role so you can decide whether this is a job you really want. By learning more about the day-to-day tasks, you will also gain more insight into what specific skills and strengths are needed and you can address any topics that haven’t already been covered.
 


2. What do you think are the most important qualities for someone to excel in this role?

This question can often lead to valuable information that’s not in the job description. It can help you learn about the company culture and expectations so you can show that you are a good fit.
 

3. What are your expectations for this role during the first 30 days, 60 days, year?

Find out what your employer’s expectations are for the person in this position.






9. What do you like best about working for this company?
Ask about your interviewer’s personal experience for additional insight into the company’s culture.


12. What are the next steps in the interview process?
This question shows that you are eager to move forward in the process. It will also help you gain important information about the timeline for hiring so that you can follow up appropriately.
 
 
------------------------------------------------------


                                                                  

1. Look for unexpected opportunities
“You are confined only by the walls you build yourself”. Not sure if your qualification is good enough for the job you REALLY want to apply for? Dare to dream big and do it! People are not born great it’s the ambition that pushes them. Be confident to try new things and be thirsty to learn. You’re going to have the opportunity to prove you were the right choice when you get selected.


2. Weakness is strength

We all have weaknesses but if you know yours well, that makes you exceptional. Exceptional people have the courage to admit the many things they don’t know and may even be terrible at. But, being candid about your flaws is not the end of the story, employers want to know how you plan on overcoming those weaknesses. A bit of self-awareness goes a long way for both you and your employer to assess if this job is a good fit for you and vice-versa.


3. Three Key Strengths

You must know your strengths, what you’re best at, what you’re known for delivering consistently. Despite your weaknesses, you stand a chance to be hired for that one unique strength. Avoid generalizing and be prepared with specific REAL examples to demonstrate your strengths.


4. If you fail to prepare, you prepare to fail

Research about the company, its core staff and its market. In times of access to company websites, social media, Glassdoor ideally be over-prepared, there’s no excuse to walk into an interview ignorant. Take your time to absorb all your research. Bonus points if you go the extra mile to read up on the company’s competitors. Be prepared to have a discussion on a variety of subjects. Keep your conversation enthusiastic, clear and concise. Remember, an interview is meant to learn more about YOU.


5. Get your priorities right

Is learning your top most priority? Or is it pay? How important is work culture and work-life balance to you? 

Your priorities may change throughout your career but what ranks high on your list today is what matters. A clear answer to this question will give you an edge as it demonstrates clarity of thought and practicality. It’s hard to prove what you can do in a first discussion, but you can always give an insight on how you think.


6. All you have to do is tell

“Whatever good things we build end up building us”. When you take a job at a start-up, it’s because you believe in it. Be prepared to work your hardest. You do it because you WANT to be part of the building process and that’s what your employer expects. If that’s not how you picture it then save yourself the time and don’t apply.


7. Be authentic

Whether it’s your background or your skills it’s never a good idea to lie in your interview. Don’t act what you should be for the job, be what you are. Be authentic (honesty minus the bluntness and judgment), stay away from artificiality. Even if you get the job, it’s no fun if your career is jeopardised by the discovery of one careless lie.